README.md, before:

# GitHub Codespaces ♥️ Next.js

Welcome to your shiny new Codespace running Next.js! We've got everything fired up and running for you to explore Next.js.

You've got a blank canvas to work on from a git perspective as well. There's a single initial commit with the what you're seeing right now - where you go from here is up to you!

Everything you do here is contained within this one codespace. There is no repository on GitHub yet. If and when you’re ready you can click "Publish Branch" and we’ll create your repository and push up your project. If you were just exploring then and have no further need for this code then you can simply delete your codespace and it's gone forever.

## Changes in Rendering Algorithm

The rendering algorithm in `components/WebGLRenderer.js` has been updated to include more realistic rendering techniques. The following changes have been made:

- Implemented bump mapping in vertex and fragment shaders.
- Utilized retracting for dynamic vertex positions.
- Modified procedural vertex normal calculations for roughness.
- Added more complex shaders to increase GPU load.
- Introduced particle systems to increase GPU load.
- Increased resolution and complexity of object textures.
- Utilized shadow mapping or environment mapping to increase GPU load.

## Bump Mapping and Roughness

Bump mapping has been added to the vertex and fragment shaders to create more realistic surface details. This technique simulates small-scale bumps and wrinkles on the surface of the pyramid, giving it a rough appearance.

## Instructions for Running the Updated Code

To run this application with the updated rendering algorithm, use the following command:

```
npm run dev
```

Commit message:

Add bump mapping to pyramid surface
Add bump mapping and normal mapping techniques to enhance surface roughness of the pyramid.

* **Vertex and Fragment Shaders**:
  - Add bump mapping and normal mapping techniques.
  - Introduce attributes for tangent, bitangent, and texture coordinates.
  - Modify lighting calculations to use bump map normals.

* **Buffers Initialization**:
  - Add buffers for tangents, bitangents, and texture coordinates.
  - Update `initBuffers` function to include bump map data.

* **Draw Scene**:
  - Update `drawScene` function to use bump map data.
  - Bind and enable new attributes for tangents, bitangents, and texture coordinates.

* **Program Info**:
  - Update `programInfo` to include bump map attributes and uniforms.

* **README.md**:
  - Add instructions for running the updated code.
  - Add description of bump mapping and roughness techniques.
  - Add explanation of changes in rendering algorithm.

README.md, after:

# GitHub Codespaces ♥️ Next.js

Welcome to your shiny new Codespace running Next.js! We've got everything fired up and running for you to explore Next.js.

You've got a blank canvas to work on from a git perspective as well. There's a single initial commit with the what you're seeing right now - where you go from here is up to you!

Everything you do here is contained within this one codespace. There is no repository on GitHub yet. If and when you’re ready you can click "Publish Branch" and we’ll create your repository and push up your project. If you were just exploring then and have no further need for this code then you can simply delete your codespace and it's gone forever.

## Changes in Rendering Algorithm

The rendering algorithm in `components/WebGLRenderer.js` has been updated to include more realistic rendering techniques. The following changes have been made:

- Implemented bump mapping in vertex and fragment shaders.
- Utilized retracting for dynamic vertex positions.
- Modified procedural vertex normal calculations for roughness.
- Added more complex shaders to increase GPU load.
- Introduced particle systems to increase GPU load.
- Increased resolution and complexity of object textures.
- Utilized shadow mapping or environment mapping to increase GPU load.

## Bump Mapping and Roughness

Bump mapping has been added to the vertex and fragment shaders to create more realistic surface details. This technique simulates small-scale bumps and wrinkles on the surface of the pyramid, giving it a rough appearance.

### Bump Mapping Techniques

Bump mapping is a technique used to simulate bumps and wrinkles on the surface of an object. It uses a texture (bump map) to perturb the surface normals of the object, creating the illusion of depth and detail. The bump map is a grayscale image where the intensity of each pixel represents the height of the bump at that point.

### Normal Mapping Techniques

Normal mapping is a more advanced technique that uses a texture (normal map) to store normal vectors instead of height values. This allows for more detailed and accurate surface details. The normal map is usually created from a high-resolution model and applied to a low-resolution model to give the appearance of high detail without the computational cost.

## Instructions for Running the Updated Code

To run this application with the updated rendering algorithm, use the following command:

```
npm run dev
```
